<h2> Inspiration: </h2>
I wanted to build an application that provides feedback to users player various instruments. The application can be used by individuals with varying levels of skill; however, the main purpose is to help beginners that don’t have an ear for correctness in terms of the music, so feedback is very important early on to become a good musician. Additionally, this application will help individuals who may not have the funds to pay for a music instructor. 
The first implementation of this app was done at Hack the North, a Waterloo-based hackathons; where I, collaborated with three students to build a prototype of Music Instructor. The prototype lacked UI design, and the algorithm that evaluates players was very week. The algorithm used a stack, which would mean that when a user is playing a song, if they were to miss a note, our app would constantly be listening for that note until that note is popped off the stack. 
I have decided to update the algorithm, as well as design a friendly UI to make the experience more accurate and better overall. 

What it does: 
The app is currently on the Android platform; however, I do which to deploy it on IOS as well. Music Instructor uses the microphone to listen to music being played. I built a backend API, hosted as a Heroku app, that parses .midi files, and feeds a collection of notes to the app, and the app uses these notes to compare to a user playing a song in real-time. To ensure accuracy, I feed the BPM time associated with the song from the API to the app. Using this value during each iterations the app waits the amount of time expected for the beat to happen (while factoring in time that is wasted when the loop iterates). If the note is not played during that time frame, the app will move and an try to match another note. The reason I wait the whole time frame, is because when a user plays a note it is possible that play a multitude of notes before hitting the note that they wish to play. When a user plays a note poorly, the app records this in a collection, and at the end provides a score, as well, as a summary stating each note that the player has missed, and where in the song that note is. 

Built with: Heroku, node.js, java, android, midi.js.
